---
title: "Creating an interactive map of Canadian election results from messy data"
date: "2018-01-15"
---

The goal of this project is to study how the voting patterns in the 42nd Canadian General Election of 2015 was influenced by socioeconomic characteristics of voters at the poll level.

The project will be split in two (lengthy) posts.

In the first post, we will clean the election results and the election shapefiles and create a map of the results. Our goal is to create a sfdata frame that will allow us to recreate this interactive map by CBC. The polygons and the results data come as open data respectively from the Open Canada and the Elections Canada websites.

Data will be downloaded and binded using the purrrand httrpackages. Data tables will be created using the DTpackage and I will make sure that all the final databases are correct using the testthat package.

In the second post, we will download the Census 2016 data at the dissemination area (DA) level. Dissemination areas are the smallest geographical unit for which statistics canada releases census data to the public and they have a population of around 400 and 700 persons. The census data and polygons will be downloaded using the excellent cancensus package. We will then convert the dissemination areas to polls using the sfpackage to identify the intersections and distribute voters from the dissemination areas to the polling division by assuming that the population density is uniforme across the DA.

The relationship between different socioeconomic characteristics and the election results will then be visualised using ggplot2, patchwork, leaflet and htmltools packages.

[see the rest of part 1 here](/blog_elect2015_part1.html)